# eLibrarian
This is team 11's software development project. Its a Librarian Assisstant program that will allow users to browse or take out the books of a library with their phones (or anything with access to a web browser).

Users will need to login in order to have access to the database of the library's books. If they don't have an account, they can create one. Once logged in, they can search through said database to find specific titles or authors, and they can either take out a book, or join the book's waitlist if it's borrowed already. Taking out a book will tell the user they have borrowed it, and how long they have to return the book. Joining the waitlist will tell the user how many people are in front of them on the list, as well as a rough estimate of when the book should be available to rent. Librarians will have an upgraded user account that will allow them to edit the library's stock, edit other user's passwords, and delete users all together, in addition to the regular user functions. Also, librarian's are the only account with the privilege to promote other accounts to a librarian account. User's should be able to see their info, which waitlists they are on, and also which books they have borrowed or are due back on their account page.

We have added several features:
Keizo added an open-source library to the Login.java class, which allows it to encrypt user’s passwords in the database (making it more secure). He also added a feature to give users an option for forgetting their password, which prompts the user to enter a new password. This is better than before, as users had no way of getting into their account if they forgot their information. OUTPUT (3)

Brenner updated the functionality of borrowing a book, or joining its waitlist. Now when users do either of these options, a table in the database is updated to actually track when they happen (Before there was no way of knowing an account had borrowed a book after they logged out). This helps calculate when a book is due back, and the Book.java class now checks this table to track the book’s availability and how many people are on its waitlist. The User.java class now displays which books a user is renting or on the waitlist for (instead of just the user's email and password). Additionally, he added a function to return a book, which deletes all of that user’s information from this new table in the database (this feature was needed to test the waitlist functions and simulates the actual thing people will have to do when using this system).
OUTPUT  (3)

Adrian flushed out the Admin/Librarian page which means updating the menus to display all of the regular options for users at the same time as the admin functions. Before the admin screen had to be separately logged in to which was a pain. Admins can now change user’s passwords, and delete users all together in addition to adding books and deleting books. OUTPUT  (1)

Bolu built the Notify user feature. This uses an open-source library to send an unreplyable email to the user’s email that states when a book is due back, or when the book they are waiting for is available to borrow. This is great for making sure users return books on time, and to keep the wait time for the books short. OUTPUT  (2)

Keizo and Adrian wrote the GUI that allows the program to run in a window and take alot nicer input then the console did previously. OUTPUT (1)

